proxysql integration (#9758)
pingcap/docs: develop/dev-guide-proxysql-integration.md

---
title: Integration TiDB with ProxySQL step by step
summary: Explain integration TiDB with ProxySQL step by step.
---

# Integration TiDB with ProxySQL step by step

This document briefly describes how to integrate **_TiDB_** with **_ProxySQL_** using CentOS 7 as an example. If you have integration needs for other systems, check out the [Try Out](#4-try-out) section, which is an introduction to deploying a test integration environment using **_Docker_** and **_Docker Compose_**. You can also refer yourself to the following links for more information:

- [TiDB Documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/)
- [TiDB Developer Guide](/develop/dev-guide-overview.md)
- [ProxySQL Documentation](https://proxysql.com/documentation/)
- [TiDB With ProxySQL Integration Test](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test)

## 1. Startup TiDB

### 1.1 Test Environment - Source compilation

> 1. Download [TiDB](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb) code, enter `tidb-server` folder and run `go build`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Download [TiDB](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb) code, change to the `tidb-server` folder and run the `go build` command.
```

    ```sh
    git clone git@github.com:pingcap/tidb.git
    cd tidb/tidb-server
    go build
    ```

2. Use the configuration file tidb-config.toml to start TiDB. Note that:
    - Use `unistore` as the storage engine, which is the test storage engine for TiDB, so please use it for testing only.
    - `TIDB_SERVER_PATH`: The location of the binary compiled with `go build` in the previous step. For example, if you did the previous step under `/usr/local`, then `TIDB_SERVER_PATH` should be: `/usr/local/tidb/tidb-server/tidb-server`.
    - `LOCAL_TIDB_LOG`: The location to export TiDB logs

    ```sh
    ${TIDB_SERVER_PATH} -config ./tidb-config.toml -store unistore -path "" -lease 0s > ${LOCAL_TIDB_LOG} 2>&1 &
    ```

### 1.2 Test Environment - TiUP startup

[TiUP](/tiup/tiup-overview.md), as the package manager, makes it far easier to manage different cluster components in the TiDB ecosystem.

1. Install TiUP

    ```sh
    curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://tiup-mirrors.pingcap.com/install.sh | sh
    ```

> 2. Test environment start TiDB

Reviewer: Start TiDB in the test environment

    ```sh
    tiup playground
    ```

### 1.3 Test Environment - TiDB Cloud Developer Tier

Please read [Build a TiDB cluster in TiDB Cloud (DevTier)](/develop/dev-guide-build-cluster-in-cloud.md).

> ### 1.4 Formal Environment - TiDB Cloud

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1.4 Production Environment - TiDB Cloud
```

We recommend using **TiDB Cloud** directly when you need hosting TiDB services (e.g., you can't manage it yourself, or you need a cloud-native environment, etc.) You can check out [TiDB Cloud - Create a TiDB Cluster](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/create-tidb-cluster) to get a TiDB cluster in TiDB Cloud for a formal environment.

> ### 1.5 Formal Environment - Local Deploy

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 1.5 Production Environment - Local Deploy
```

> The formal environment is much more complex than the test environment, so we recommend reading the article [Deploy a TiDB Cluster Using TiUP](/production-deployment-using-tiup.md) and then deploying it based on hardware conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Production environment is much more complex than the test environment. To deploy an on-premises production cluster, it is recommended to refer to the article [Deploy a TiDB Cluster Using TiUP](/production-deployment-using-tiup.md) and then deploy it based on hardware conditions.
```

## 2. Startup ProxySQL

### 2.1 Install by YUM

1. Adding repository:

    ```sh
    cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/proxysql.repo << EOF
    [proxysql]
    name=ProxySQL YUM repository
    baseurl=https://repo.proxysql.com/ProxySQL/proxysql-2.4.x/centos/\$releasever
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=https://repo.proxysql.com/ProxySQL/proxysql-2.4.x/repo_pub_key
    EOF
    ```

2. Install:

    ```sh
    yum install proxysql
    ```

3. Startup:

    ```sh
    systemctl start proxysql
    ```

### 2.2 Other

> Please read [ProxySQL Github page](https://github.com/sysown/proxysql#installation) or the [official documentation](https://proxysql.com/documentation/) for installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install ProxySQL, refer to the [ProxySQL Github page](https://github.com/sysown/proxysql#installation) or the [ProxySQL Installation documentation](https://proxysql.com/documentation/).
```

![proxysql config layer](/media/develop/proxysql_config_layer.png)

### 3.2 Configure TiDB Server

Add TiDB backend in ProxySQL, you can add multiple TiDB backends if you have more than one. Please do this at **_ProxySQL Admin interface_**:

```sql
insert into mysql_servers(hostgroup_id,hostname,port) values(0,'127.0.0.1',4000);
load mysql servers to runtime;
save mysql servers to disk;
```

Field Explanation:

- `hostgroup_id`: ProxySQL manages backend services by **hostgroup**, you can configure several services that need load balancing as the same hostgroup, so that ProxySQL will distribute SQL to these services evenly. And when you need to distinguish different backend services (such as read/write splitting scenario), you can configure them as different hostgroups.
- `hostname`: IP or domain of the backend service.
- `port`: The port of the backend service.

### 3.3 Configure Proxy Login User

> Add a TiDB backend login user to ProxySQL. ProxySQL will allow this account to login **_ProxySQL MySQL interface_** and ProxySQL will use it to create a connection to TiDB, so make sure this account has the appropriate permissions in TiDB. Please do this at **_ProxySQL Admin interface_**:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Add a TiDB backend login user to ProxySQL. ProxySQL will allow this account to log in **_ProxySQL MySQL interface_** and ProxySQL will use it to create a connection to TiDB, so make sure this account has the appropriate permissions in TiDB. Please do this at **_ProxySQL Admin interface_**:
```

```sql
insert into mysql_users(username,password,active,default_hostgroup,transaction_persistent) values('root','',1,0,1);
load mysql users to runtime;
save mysql users to disk;
```

Field Explanation:

- `username`: username
- `password`: password

> - `active`: `1` is active, `0` is inactive, only the `active = 1` user can login.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `active`: `1` is active, `0` is inactive, only the `active = 1` user can log in.
```

The config file is located at `/etc/proxysql.cnf`, we will translate the above required configuration to the config file way, only change `mysql_servers`, `mysql_users` two nodes, the rest of the configuration items can check `/etc/proxysql.cnf`:

```
mysql_servers =
 (
     {
         address="127.0.0.1"
         port=4000
         hostgroup=0
         max_connections=2000
     }
 )

mysql_users:
 (
    {
         username = "root"
         password = ""
         default_hostgroup = 0
         max_connections = 1000
         default_schema = "test"
         active = 1
         transaction_persistent = 1
     }
 )
```

Then use `systemctl restart proxysql` to restart the service and it will take effect. The SQLite database will be created automatically after the config file takes effect and the config file will not be read again.

### 3.5 Other Config Items

The above config items are required. You can get all the config items' names and their roles in the [Global Variables](https://proxysql.com/documentation/global-variables/) article in the ProxySQL documentation.

## 4. Try Out

> You can use Docker and Docker Compose for quick start. Make sure the ports `4000` and `6033` are free.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use Docker and Docker Compose for quick start. Make sure the ports `4000` and `6033` are not allocated.
```

```sh
docker-compose up -d
```

This has completed the startup of an integrated TiDB and ProxySQL environment, which will start two containers. **_DO NOT_** use it to create  in a production environment. You can connect to the port `6033` (ProxySQL) using the username `root` and an empty password. The container specific configuration can be found in [docker-compose.yaml](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml) and the ProxySQL specific configuration can be found in [proxysql-docker.cnf](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/proxysql-docker.cnf).

## 5. Use

### 5.1 MySQL Client Connect ProxySQL

> Run:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Run the following command:
```

```sh
mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 6033 -e "SELECT VERSION()"
```

> Result:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The result is as follows:
```

```sql
+--------------------+
| VERSION()          |
+--------------------+
| 5.7.25-TiDB-v6.1.0 |
+--------------------+
```

### 5.2 Run Integration Test

> If you satisfy the following dependencies:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prerequisites:
```

- Permissions for the [tidb-test](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb-test) code repository tidb-test

> - The machine needs to be connected to the network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The machine has access to the Internet
```

- Golang SDK
- Git
- One of the following:

    1. Local Startup

        - CentOS 7 machine (can be a physical or virtual machine)
        - Yum

    2. Docker Startup

        - Docker
        - Docker Compose

Then you can clone [integertion test code](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test) and run locally: `. /proxysql-initial.sh && . /test-local.sh` or use Docker: `. /test-docker.sh` to run integration tests.

> There is more information available in the [integration test documentation](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/README.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, refer to the [integration test documentation](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/README.md).
```

---
title: Integrate TiDB with ProxySQL Step by Step
summary: Introduce how to integrate TiDB with ProxySQL step by step.
---

# Integrate TiDB with ProxySQL Step by Step

This document briefly describes how to integrate **TiDB** with **ProxySQL** using CentOS 7 as an example. If you want to integrate using other systems, refer to the [Try Out](#4-try-out) section, which introduces how to deploy a test integration environment using **Docker** and **Docker Compose**. For more information, refer to:

- [TiDB Documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/)
- [TiDB Developer Guide](/develop/dev-guide-overview.md)
- [ProxySQL Documentation](https://proxysql.com/documentation/)
- [TiDB with ProxySQL Integration Test](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test)

> ## 1. Startup TiDB

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 1. Start TiDB
```

### Test environment

<SimpleTab grouId="startup-tidb">

<div label="Source compilation" value="source-code">

1. Download the [TiDB](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb) source code, change to the `tidb-server` folder and run the `go build` command.

    ```shell
    git clone git@github.com:pingcap/tidb.git
    cd tidb/tidb-server
    go build
    ```

2. Use the configuration file [`tidb-config.toml`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/tidb-config.toml) to start TiDB. The command is as follows:

    ```shell
    ${TIDB_SERVER_PATH} -config ./tidb-config.toml -store unistore -path "" -lease 0s > ${LOCAL_TIDB_LOG} 2>&1 &
    ```

    > **Note:**
    >

>     > - The preceding command uses `unistore` as the storage engine, which is a test storage engine in TiDB. Make sure that you use it in test environment only.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    > - The preceding command uses `unistore` as the storage engine, which is a test storage engine in TiDB. Make sure that you use it in a test environment only.
```

    > - `TIDB_SERVER_PATH`: the path of the compiled binary using `go build`. For example, if you execute the previous command under `/usr/local`, `TIDB_SERVER_PATH` is `/usr/local/tidb/tidb-server/tidb-server`.
    > - `LOCAL_TIDB_LOG`: the log file path of TiDB.

</div>

<div label="TiUP" value="tiup">

> [TiUP](/tiup/tiup-overview.md), as the package manager, makes it far easier to manage different cluster components in the TiDB ecosystem, such as TiDB, PD, and TiKV.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[TiUP](/tiup/tiup-overview.md), as the TiDB package manager, makes it easier to manage different cluster components in the TiDB ecosystem, such as TiDB, PD, and TiKV.
```

1. Install TiUP:

    ```shell
    curl --proto '=https' --tlsv1.2 -sSf https://tiup-mirrors.pingcap.com/install.sh | sh
    ```

> 2. Start TiDB in the test environment:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2. Start TiDB in a test environment:
```

    ```shell
    tiup playground
    ```

</div>

<div label="TiDB Cloud" value="tidb-cloud">

You can refer to [Build a TiDB cluster in TiDB Cloud (Developer Tier)](/develop/dev-guide-build-cluster-in-cloud.md).

</div>

</SimpleTab>

### Production environment

<SimpleTab grouId="startup-tidb">

<div label="TiDB Cloud" value="tidb-cloud">

> It is recommended to use [TiDB Cloud](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-cloud/) directly when you need hosting TiDB services (for example, you cannot manage it yourself, or you need a cloud-native environment). To build a TiDB cluster in production environment, refer to [Create a TiDB cluster](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/create-tidb-cluster).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is recommended to use [TiDB Cloud](https://en.pingcap.com/tidb-cloud/) directly when you need hosting TiDB services (for example, you cannot manage it yourself, or you need a cloud-native environment). To build a TiDB cluster in a production environment, refer to [Create a TiDB cluster](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidbcloud/create-tidb-cluster).
```

</div>

<div label="Deploy Locally" value="tiup">

> The production environment is much more complex than the test environment. To deploy an on-premises production cluster, it is recommended to refer to [Deploy a TiDB cluster using TiUP](/production-deployment-using-tiup.md) and then deploy it based on hardware conditions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The production environment requires more steps than the test environment. To deploy an on-premises production cluster, it is recommended to refer to [Deploy a TiDB cluster using TiUP](/production-deployment-using-tiup.md) and then deploy it based on hardware conditions.
```

</div>

</SimpleTab>

> ## 2. Startup ProxySQL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## 2. Start ProxySQL
```

> ### Install by yum

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Install ProxySQL by yum
```

> 1. Add the repository:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add the ProxySQL repository:
```

> 1. Add the repository:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add the ProxySQL repository:
```

    ```shell
    cat > /etc/yum.repos.d/proxysql.repo << EOF
    [proxysql]
    name=ProxySQL YUM repository
    baseurl=https://repo.proxysql.com/ProxySQL/proxysql-2.4.x/centos/\$releasever
    gpgcheck=1
    gpgkey=https://repo.proxysql.com/ProxySQL/proxysql-2.4.x/repo_pub_key
    EOF
    ```

2. Install ProxySQL:

    ```shell
    yum install proxysql
    ```

3. Start ProxySQL:

    ```shell
    systemctl start proxysql
    ```

> ### Other ways

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Other installation ways
```

To install ProxySQL using other ways, refer to the [ProxySQL README](https://github.com/sysown/proxysql#installation) or the [ProxySQL installation documentation](https://proxysql.com/documentation/).

## 3. Configure ProxySQL

To use ProxySQL as a proxy for TiDB, you need to configure ProxySQL. The required configuration items are listed in the following sections. For more details about other configuration items, refer to the [ProxySQL official documentation](https://proxysql.com/documentation/).

### Simple introduction

ProxySQL uses a port to manage configuration, which is **_ProxySQL Admin interface_**, and a port to proxy, which is **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_**.

> - **_ProxySQL Admin interface_**: To connect to the admin interface, you can use a `admin` user to read and write configuration, or use a `stats` user to read part of statistics (cannot read or write configuration). The default credentials are `admin:admin` and `stats:stats`. For security reasons, you can use the default credentials to connect locally, but to connect remotely, you need to configure a new user, which is often named `radmin`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **_ProxySQL Admin interface_**: To connect to the admin interface, you can use an `admin` user to read and write configuration, or use a `stats` user to read part of statistics (cannot read or write configuration). The default credentials are `admin:admin` and `stats:stats`. For security reasons, you can use the default credentials to connect locally, but to connect remotely, you need to configure a new user, which is often named `radmin`.
```

- **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_**: Used as a proxy to forward SQL to the configured service.

![proxysql config flow](/media/develop/proxysql_config_flow.png)

> There are three layers in ProxySQL configuration: `runtime`, `memory`, and `disk`. You can change the configuration of the `memory` layer only. After modifying the configuration, you can use `LOAD xxx TO runtime` to make the configuration effective, and/or you can use `SAVE xxx TO DISK` to save to the disk to prevent configuration loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three layers in ProxySQL configurations: `runtime`, `memory`, and `disk`. You can change the configuration of the `memory` layer only. After modifying the configuration, you can use `LOAD xxx TO runtime` to make the configuration effective, and/or you can use `SAVE xxx TO DISK` to save to the disk to prevent configuration loss.
```

> There are three layers in ProxySQL configuration: `runtime`, `memory`, and `disk`. You can change the configuration of the `memory` layer only. After modifying the configuration, you can use `LOAD xxx TO runtime` to make the configuration effective, and/or you can use `SAVE xxx TO DISK` to save to the disk to prevent configuration loss.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three layers in ProxySQL configurations: `runtime`, `memory`, and `disk`. You can change the configuration of the `memory` layer only. After modifying the configuration, you can use `LOAD xxx TO runtime` to make the configuration effective, and/or you can use `SAVE xxx TO DISK` to save to the disk to prevent configuration loss.
```

![proxysql config layer](/media/develop/proxysql_config_layer.png)

> ### Configure TiDB Server

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configure TiDB server
```

> You can add multiple TiDB Servers in ProxySQL. To add TiDB Servers, perform the following at **_ProxySQL Admin interface_**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can add multiple TiDB servers in ProxySQL. To add TiDB servers, perform the following at **_ProxySQL Admin interface_**:
```

```sql
INSERT INTO mysql_servers(hostgroup_id, hostname, port) VALUES (0, '127.0.0.1', 4000);
LOAD mysql servers TO runtime;
SAVE mysql servers TO DISK;
```

Field description:

- `hostgroup_id`: ProxySQL manages servers by **hostgroup**. To distribute SQL to these servers evenly, you can configure several servers that need load balancing to the same hostgroup. To distinguish the servers, such as read and write splitting, you can configure them to different hostgroup.

> - `hostname`: The IP or domain of the TiDB Server.
> - `port`: The port of the TiDB Server.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `hostname`: The IP or domain of the TiDB server.
- `port`: The port of the TiDB server.
```

### Configure Proxy login user

> After adding a TiDB Server user to ProxySQL, ProxySQL allows this user to log in **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_** and creates a connection with TiDB. Make sure that the user has appropriate permissions in TiDB. To add a TiDB Server user, perform the following at **_ProxySQL Admin interface_**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After adding a TiDB server user to ProxySQL, ProxySQL allows this user to log in **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_** and create a connection with TiDB. Make sure that the user has appropriate permissions in TiDB. To add a TiDB server user, perform the following at **_ProxySQL Admin interface_**:
```

```sql
INSERT INTO mysql_users(username, password, active, default_hostgroup, transaction_persistent) VALUES ('root', '', 1, 0, 1);
LOAD mysql users TO runtime;
SAVE mysql users TO DISK;
```

Field description:

- `username`: The user name.
- `password`: The password.

> - `active`: Controls whether the user is active. `1` is active, `0` is inactive. Only when the `active` is `1`, user can log in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `active`: Controls whether the user is active. `1` is active, and `0` is inactive. Only when the `active` is `1`, the user can log in.
```

> - `default_hostgroup`: The default hostgroup used by the user, where SQL distributed to unless the query rule route the traffic to a specific hostgroup.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `default_hostgroup`: The default hostgroup used by the user, where SQL distributed to unless the query rule routes the traffic to a specific hostgroup.
```

- `transaction_persistent`: `1` indicates persistent transaction. That is, when the user starts a transaction in a connection, all statements are routed to the same hostgroup until the transaction is committed or rolled back.

> ### Configure by a configuration file

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configure ProxySQL by a configuration file
```

```shell
rm /var/lib/proxysql/proxysql.db
```

Alternatively, you can execute the `LOAD xxx FROM CONFIG` command to overwrite the current configuration.

The path of the configuration file is `/etc/proxysql.cnf`. To configure required configuration items in the preceding sections with the configuration file, the following takes `mysql_servers` and `mysql_users` as an example. To modify other items, refer to the `/etc/proxysql.cnf`.

```
mysql_servers =
(
    {
        address="127.0.0.1"
        port=4000
        hostgroup=0
        max_connections=2000
    }
)

mysql_users:
(
    {
        username = "root"
        password = ""
        default_hostgroup = 0
        max_connections = 1000
        default_schema = "test"
        active = 1
        transaction_persistent = 1
    }
)
```

> To make the preceding modifications effective, use the `systemctl restart proxysql` command to restart. Then the SQLite database will be created automatically and the configuration file will not ignored.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To make the preceding modifications effective, use the `systemctl restart proxysql` command to restart ProxySQL. Then the SQLite database will be created automatically and the configuration file will not be ignored.
```

### Other configuration items

> The preceding configuration items are required. For more details about all items, refer to [Global variables](https://proxysql.com/documentation/global-variables/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The preceding configuration items are required. For optional configuration items, refer to [Global variables](https://proxysql.com/documentation/global-variables/).
```

## 4. Try out

To quick start the test environment, you can use Docker and Docker Compose. Make sure the ports `4000` and `6033` are not allocated.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test.git
cd tidb-proxysql-integration-test && docker-compose pull # Get the latest Docker images
sudo setenforce 0 # Only on Linux
docker-compose up -d
```

> **Warning:**
>

> > **DO NOT** use this to create a integration in production environments.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> **DO NOT** use the preceding commands to create an integration in production environments.
```

> The preceding command starts an environment integrated TiDB and ProxySQL and runs two containers. To log in to the ProxySQL `6033` port, you can use the `root` username with an empty password. For more information about the configuration of containers, see [`docker-compose.yaml`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml). FFor more details about the configuration of ProxySQL, see [`proxysql-docker.cnf`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/proxysql-docker.cnf).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The preceding commands start an environment integrated TiDB with ProxySQL and runs two containers. To log in to the ProxySQL `6033` port, you can use the `root` username with an empty password. For more information about the configuration of containers, see [`docker-compose.yaml`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml). For more details about the configuration of ProxySQL, see [`proxysql-docker.cnf`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/proxysql-docker.cnf).
```

> The preceding command starts an environment integrated TiDB and ProxySQL and runs two containers. To log in to the ProxySQL `6033` port, you can use the `root` username with an empty password. For more information about the configuration of containers, see [`docker-compose.yaml`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml). FFor more details about the configuration of ProxySQL, see [`proxysql-docker.cnf`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/proxysql-docker.cnf).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The preceding commands start an environment integrated TiDB with ProxySQL and runs two containers. To log in to the ProxySQL `6033` port, you can use the `root` username with an empty password. For more information about the configuration of containers, see [`docker-compose.yaml`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/docker-compose.yaml). For more details about the configuration of ProxySQL, see [`proxysql-docker.cnf`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/proxysql-docker.cnf).
```

To connect to TiDB, run the following command:

```shell
mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 6033 -e "SELECT VERSION()"
```

> The result is as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example result is as follows:
```

```sql
+--------------------+
| VERSION()          |
+--------------------+
| 5.7.25-TiDB-v6.1.0 |
+--------------------+
```

## 5. Configuration examples

Dependencies:

- Docker
- Docker Compose
- MySQL Client

Clone the example code repository and change to the sample directory:

```shell
git clone https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test.git
cd tidb-proxysql-integration-test
```

> The following sections use the `tidb-proxysql-integration-test` as the root directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following sections use `tidb-proxysql-integration-test` as the root directory.
```

    - The port of **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_** is not exposed because it can only be accessed in the container.
    - For more details about the process, refer to [`docker-compose.yaml`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/example/load-balance-admin-interface/docker-compose.yaml).

2. In the three TiDB containers, create the same table schema with different data (`'tidb-0'`, `'tidb-1'` and `'tidb-2'`) to distinguish TiDB instances.

    ```shell
    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4001 << EOF
    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS test.test;
    CREATE TABLE test.test (db VARCHAR(255));
    INSERT INTO test.test (db) VALUES ('tidb-0');
    EOF

    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4002 << EOF
    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS test.test;
    CREATE TABLE test.test (db VARCHAR(255));
    INSERT INTO test.test (db) VALUES ('tidb-1');
    EOF

    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4003 << EOF
    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS test.test;
    CREATE TABLE test.test (db VARCHAR(255));
    INSERT INTO test.test (db) VALUES ('tidb-2');
    EOF
    ```

> 3. To execute the [`proxysql-prepare.sql`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/example/load-balance-admin-interface/proxysql-prepare.sql) in **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_**, executing the `docker-compose exec` command as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To execute the [`proxysql-prepare.sql`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/example/load-balance-admin-interface/proxysql-prepare.sql) in **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_**, execute the `docker-compose exec` command as follows:
```

    ```shell
    docker-compose exec proxysql sh -c "mysql -uadmin -padmin -h127.0.0.1 -P6032 < ./proxysql-prepare.sql"
    ```

>     The preceding SQL file runs:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The preceding SQL file runs and triggers the following operations:
```

>     1. Add hosts of three TiDB Servers and set all `hostgroup_id` as `0`.
>     2. Make the configuration of TiDb Servers effective and save it on disk.
>     3. Add a `root` user with an empty password and set `default_hostgroup` as `0`, corresponding to the preceding `hostgroup_id` of TiDB Servers.
>     4. Make the configuration of the user effective and save it on disk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Adds hosts of three TiDB Servers and set all `hostgroup_id` as `0`.
    2. Makes the configuration of TiDb Servers effective and saves it on disk.
    3. Adds a `root` user with an empty password and sets `default_hostgroup` as `0`, corresponding to the preceding `hostgroup_id` of TiDB Servers.
    4. Makes the configuration of the user effective and saves it on disk.
```

> 4. Log in to **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_** with the `root` user and query 5 times using the following command. The expected output contains `'tidb-0'`, `'tidb-1'` and `'tidb-2'` three different values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Log in to **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_** with the `root` user and query 5 times using the following statements. The expected output contains `'tidb-0'`, `'tidb-1'`, and `'tidb-2'` three different values.
```

    ```shell
    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 6034 -t << EOF
    SELECT * FROM test.test;
    SELECT * FROM test.test;
    SELECT * FROM test.test;
    SELECT * FROM test.test;
    SELECT * FROM test.test;
    EOF
    ```

5. To stop and remove containers and networks, you can use the following command:

    ```shell
    docker-compose down
    ```

#### Expected output

> There are three different results (`'tidb-0'`, `'tidb-1'` and `'tidb-2'`) in the expected output, but the exact order cannot be expected. The following is one of the expected output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three different results (`'tidb-0'`, `'tidb-1'`, and `'tidb-2'`) in the expected output, but the exact order cannot be expected. The following is one of the expected outputs:
```

Creating load-balance-admin-interface_tidb-1_1 ... done
Creating load-balance-admin-interface_tidb-2_1 ... done
Creating load-balance-admin-interface_tidb-0_1 ... done
Creating load-balance-admin-interface_proxysql_1 ... done
+--------+
| db     |
+--------+
| tidb-2 |
+--------+
+--------+
| db     |
+--------+
| tidb-0 |
+--------+
+--------+
| db     |
+--------+
| tidb-1 |
+--------+
+--------+
| db     |
+--------+
| tidb-1 |
+--------+
+--------+
| db     |
+--------+
| tidb-1 |
+--------+
Stopping load-balance-admin-interface_proxysql_1 ... done
Stopping load-balance-admin-interface_tidb-0_1   ... done
Stopping load-balance-admin-interface_tidb-2_1   ... done
Stopping load-balance-admin-interface_tidb-1_1   ... done
Removing load-balance-admin-interface_proxysql_1 ... done
Removing load-balance-admin-interface_tidb-0_1   ... done
Removing load-balance-admin-interface_tidb-2_1   ... done
Removing load-balance-admin-interface_tidb-1_1   ... done
Removing network load-balance-admin-interface_default
```

### Use Admin Interface to configure user split

Change to the sample directory:

```shell
cd example/user-split-admin-interface
```

#### Run with a script

> To configure a user split traffic using **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_**, you can run with the `test-user-split.sh` script using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure a user split traffic using **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_**, you can run the `test-user-split.sh` script using the following command:
```

```shell
./test-user-split.sh
```

#### Run step by step

The preceding `test-user-split.sh` script can be run step by step as follows:

1. Start two TiDB containers and a ProxySQL instance.

    ```shell
    docker-compose up -d
    ```

    - Start two TiDB containers using `docker-compose`. All the ports in the container are `4000` and host ports are `4001` and `4002`.

>     - After starting TiDB containers, the ProxySQL instance is started. The port of **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_** in container is `6033` and the host port is `6034`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - After you start TiDB containers, the ProxySQL instance is started. The port of **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_** in the container is `6033` and the host port is `6034`.
```

    - The port of **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_** is not exposed because it can only be accessed in the container.
    - For more details about the process, refer to [`docker-compose.yaml`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/example/user-split-admin-interface/docker-compose.yaml).

2. In the two TiDB containers, create the same table schema with different data (`'tidb-0'` and `'tidb-1'`) to distinguish TiDB instances.

    ```shell
    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4001 << EOF
    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS test.test;
    CREATE TABLE test.test (db VARCHAR(255));
    INSERT INTO test.test (db) VALUES ('tidb-0');
    EOF

    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4002 << EOF
    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS test.test;
    CREATE TABLE test.test (db VARCHAR(255));
    INSERT INTO test.test (db) VALUES ('tidb-1');
    EOF
    ```

3. Create a new user for ProxySQL in the `tidb-1` instance:

    ```shell
    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4002 << EOF
    CREATE USER 'root1' IDENTIFIED BY '';
    GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON *.* TO 'root1'@'%';
    FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
    EOF
    ```

> 4. To execute the [`proxysql-prepare.sql`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/example/user-split-admin-interface/proxysql-prepare.sql) in **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_**, executing the `docker-compose exec` command as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. To execute the [`proxysql-prepare.sql`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/example/user-split-admin-interface/proxysql-prepare.sql) in **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_**, execute the `docker-compose exec` command as follows:
```

    ```shell
    docker-compose exec proxysql sh -c "mysql -uadmin -padmin -h127.0.0.1 -P6032 < ./proxysql-prepare.sql"
    ```

    The preceding SQL file runs:

    1. Add hosts of two TiDB Servers. The `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-0` is `0` and `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-1` is `1`.
    2. Make the configuration of TiDb Servers effective and save it on disk.
    3. Add a `root` user with an empty password and set `default_hostgroup` as `0`. It indicates that the SQL routes to `tidb-0` by default.
    4. Add a user `root1` with an empty password and set `default_hostgroup` as `1`. It indicates that the SQL routes to `tidb-1` by default.

>     5. Make the configuration of the user effective and save it on disk.

Reviewer 2: ditto

>     1. Add hosts of two TiDB Servers. The `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-0` is `0` and `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-1` is `1`.
>     2. Make the configuration of TiDb Servers effective and save it on disk.
>     3. Add a `root` user with an empty password and set `default_hostgroup` as `0`. It indicates that the SQL routes to `tidb-0` by default.
>     4. Add a user `root1` with an empty password and set `default_hostgroup` as `1`. It indicates that the SQL routes to `tidb-1` by default.
>     5. Make the configuration of the user effective and save it on disk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    1. Adds hosts of two TiDB Servers. The `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-0` is `0` and `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-1` is `1`.
    2. Makes the configuration of TiDb Servers effective and saves it on disk.
    3. Adds a `root` user with an empty password and sets `default_hostgroup` as `0`. It indicates that the SQL routes to `tidb-0` by default.
    4. Adds a user `root1` with an empty password and sets `default_hostgroup` as `1`. It indicates that the SQL routes to `tidb-1` by default.
    5. Makes the configuration of the user effective and saves it on disk.
```

5. Log in to **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_** with the `root` user and `root1` user. The expected output contains `'tidb-0'` and `'tidb-1'` two different values.

    ```shell
    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 6034 -e "SELECT * FROM test.test;"
    mysql -u root1 -h 127.0.0.1 -P 6034 -e "SELECT * FROM test.test;"
    ```

6. To stop and remove containers and networks, you can use the following command:

    ```shell
    docker-compose down
    ```

#### Expected output

> The following is one of the expected output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is one of the expected outputs:
```

```
# ./test-user-split.sh
Creating network "user-split-admin-interface_default" with the default driver
Creating user-split-admin-interface_tidb-1_1 ... done
Creating user-split-admin-interface_tidb-0_1 ... done
Creating user-split-admin-interface_proxysql_1 ... done
+--------+
| db     |
+--------+
| tidb-0 |
+--------+
+--------+
| db     |
+--------+
| tidb-1 |
+--------+
Stopping user-split-admin-interface_proxysql_1 ... done
Stopping user-split-admin-interface_tidb-0_1   ... done
Stopping user-split-admin-interface_tidb-1_1   ... done
Removing user-split-admin-interface_proxysql_1 ... done
Removing user-split-admin-interface_tidb-0_1   ... done
Removing user-split-admin-interface_tidb-1_1   ... done
Removing network user-split-admin-interface_default
```

### Use Admin Interface to configure proxy rules

Change to the sample directory:

```shell
cd example/proxy-rule-admin-interface
```

#### Run with script

> To configure proxy rules to use different TiDB Server for executing read and write SQLs (if not matched, use `default_hostgroup`) using **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_**, you can run with the `proxy-rule-split.sh` using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure proxy rules to use different TiDB servers for executing read and write SQLs (if not matched, use `default_hostgroup`) using **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_**, you can run `proxy-rule-split.sh` using the following command:
```

```shell
./proxy-rule-split.sh
```

#### Run step by step

The preceding `proxy-rule-split.sh` script can be run step by step as follows:

1. Start two TiDB containers and a ProxySQL instance.

    ```shell
    docker-compose up -d
    ```

    - Start two TiDB containers using `docker-compose`. All the ports in the container are `4000` and host ports are `4001` and `4002`.

>     - After starting TiDB containers, the ProxySQL instance is started. The port of **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_** in container is `6033` and the host port is `6034`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - After you start TiDB containers, the ProxySQL instance is started. The port of **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_** in the container is `6033` and the host port is `6034`.
```

    - The port of **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_** is not exposed because it can only be accessed in the container.
    - For more details about the process, refer to [`docker-compose.yaml`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/example/proxy-rule-admin-interface/docker-compose.yaml)

2. In the two TiDB containers, create the same table schema with different data (`'tidb-0'` and `'tidb-1'`) to distinguish TiDB instances.

    ```shell
    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4001 << EOF
    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS test.test;
    CREATE TABLE test.test (db VARCHAR(255));
    INSERT INTO test.test (db) VALUES ('tidb-0');
    EOF

    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 4002 << EOF
    DROP TABLE IF EXISTS test.test;
    CREATE TABLE test.test (db VARCHAR(255));
    INSERT INTO test.test (db) VALUES ('tidb-1');
    EOF
    ```

> 3. To execute the [`proxysql-prepare.sql`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/example/proxy-rule-admin-interface/proxysql-prepare.sql) in **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_**, executing the `docker-compose exec` command as follows:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. To execute the [`proxysql-prepare.sql`](https://github.com/Icemap/tidb-proxysql-integration-test/blob/main/example/proxy-rule-admin-interface/proxysql-prepare.sql) in **_ProxySQL Admin Interface_**, execute the `docker-compose exec` command as follows:
```

    ```shell
    docker-compose exec proxysql sh -c "mysql -uadmin -padmin -h127.0.0.1 -P6032 < ./proxysql-prepare.sql"
    ```

    The preceding SQL file runs and triggers the following operations:

> 

Author: Done

    1. Add hosts of two TiDB Servers. The `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-0` is `0` and `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-1` is `1`.
    2. Make the configuration of TiDb Servers effective and save it on disk.
    3. Add a user `root` with an empty password and set `default_hostgroup` as `0`. It indicates that the SQL routes to `tidb-0` by default.
    4. Make the configuration of the user effective and save it on disk.
    5. Add the rule `^SELECT.*FOR UPDATE$` with `rule_id` as `1` and `destination_hostgroup` as `0`. If a SQL statement match this rule, it used the TiDB Server with `hostgroup` as `0` (this rule forwards `SELECT ... FOR UPDATE` to the written database).
    6. Add the rule `^SELECT` with `rule_id` as `2` and `destination_hostgroup` as `1`. If a SQL statements match this rule, it uses the TiDB Server with `hostgroup` as `1`.

>     7. Make the configuration of rule effective and save it on disk.

Reviewer 2: ditto, who is taking these steps, the user or the SQL script?

Author: SQL Script.

Reviewer 2: If so, please update these lines similar to my previous comments.

Author: Roger that.

>     1. Add hosts of two TiDB Servers. The `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-0` is `0` and `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-1` is `1`.
>     2. Make the configuration of TiDb Servers effective and save it on disk.
>     3. Add a user `root` with an empty password and set `default_hostgroup` as `0`. It indicates that the SQL routes to `tidb-0` by default.
>     4. Make the configuration of the user effective and save it on disk.
>     5. Add the rule `^SELECT.*FOR UPDATE$` with `rule_id` as `1` and `destination_hostgroup` as `0`. If a SQL statement match this rule, it used the TiDB Server with `hostgroup` as `0` (this rule forwards `SELECT ... FOR UPDATE` to the written database).
>     6. Add the rule `^SELECT` with `rule_id` as `2` and `destination_hostgroup` as `1`. If a SQL statements match this rule, it uses the TiDB Server with `hostgroup` as `1`.
>     7. Make the configuration of rule effective and save it on disk.

Author: ```suggestion
    1. Adds hosts of two TiDB Servers. The `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-0` is `0` and `hostgroup_id` of `tidb-1` is `1`.
    2. Makes the configuration of TiDB Servers effective and saves it on disk.
    3. Adds a user `root` with an empty password and sets `default_hostgroup` as `0`. It indicates that the SQL routes to `tidb-0` by default.
    4. Makes the configuration of the user effective and save it on disk.
    5. Adds the rule `^SELECT.*FOR UPDATE$` with `rule_id` as `1` and `destination_hostgroup` as `0`. If a SQL statement match this rule, it used the TiDB Server with `hostgroup` as `0` (this rule forwards `SELECT ... FOR UPDATE` to the written database).
    6. Adds the rule `^SELECT` with `rule_id` as `2` and `destination_hostgroup` as `1`. If SQL statements match this rule, it uses the TiDB Server with `hostgroup` as `1`.
    7. Makes the configuration of the rule effective and saves it on disk.
```

    > **Note:**
    >
    > More details about the matching rules:
    >
    > - ProxySQL tries to match the rules one by one in the order of `rule_id` from smallest to largest.
    > - `^` matches the beginning of a SQL statement and `$` matches the end.
    > - `match_digest` matches the parameterized SQL statement. For more details, see [query_processor_regex](https://proxysql.com/documentation/global-variables/mysql-variables/#mysql-query_processor_regex).
    > - Important parameters:
    >
    >     - `digest`: match the parameterized Hash value.
    >     - `match_pattern`: match the raw SQL statements.
    >     - `negate_match_pattern`: if you set the value to `1`, inverse the match for `match_digest` or `match_pattern`.
    >     - `log`: whether to log the query.
    >     - `replace_pattern`: if it is not empty, this is the pattern with which to replace the matched pattern.
    >
    > - For full parameters, see [mysql_query_rules](https://proxysql.com/documentation/main-runtime/#mysql_query_rules).

> 4. Log in to **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_** with the `root`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Log in to **_ProxySQL MySQL Interface_** with the `root` user:
```

    ```shell
    mysql -u root -h 127.0.0.1 -P 6034
    ```

    You can run the following statements:

    - `SELECT` statement:

        ```sql
        SELECT * FROM test.test;
        ```

>         The statement is expected to match rules with `rule_id` of `2` and forward the statement to the TiDB Server `tidb-1` with `hostgroup` of `1`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The statement is expected to match rules with `rule_id` of `2` and forward the statement to the TiDB server `tidb-1` with `hostgroup` of `1`.
```

    - `SELECT ... FOR UPDATE` statement:

        ```sql
        SELECT * FROM test.test for UPDATE;
        ```

>         The statement is expected to match rules with `rule_id` of `1` and forward the statement to the TiDB Server `tidb-0` with `hostgroup` of `0`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The statement is expected to match rules with `rule_id` of `1` and forward the statement to the TiDB server `tidb-0` with `hostgroup` of `0`.
```

    - Transaction:

        ```sql
        BEGIN;
        INSERT INTO test.test (db) VALUES ('insert this and rollback later');
        SELECT * FROM test.test;
        ROLLBACK;
        ```

>         The `INSERT` statement is expected to not match all rules. It uses the `default_hostgroup` of the user (It is `0`) and thus forward to the TiDB Server `tidb-0`(`hostgroup` is `0`). And ProxySQL turns on user `transaction_persistent` by default, this will cause all statements within the same transaction to run in the same `hostgroup`. So `SELECT * FROM test.test;` will also be forwarded to the TiDB Server `tidb-0`(`hostgroup` is `0`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        The `INSERT` statement is expected to not match all rules. It uses the `default_hostgroup` of the user (It is `0`) and thus forwards to the TiDB server `tidb-0`(`hostgroup` is `0`). And ProxySQL enables user `transaction_persistent` by default, which will cause all statements within the same transaction to run in the same `hostgroup`. So `SELECT * FROM test.test;` will also be forwarded to the TiDB Server `tidb-0`(`hostgroup` is `0`).
```

5. To stop and remove containers and networks, you can use the following command:

    ```shell
    docker-compose down
    ```

#### Expected output

```
# ./proxy-rule-split.sh
Creating network "proxy-rule-admin-interface_default" with the default driver
Creating proxy-rule-admin-interface_tidb-1_1 ... done
Creating proxy-rule-admin-interface_tidb-0_1 ... done
Creating proxy-rule-admin-interface_proxysql_1 ... done
+--------+
| db     |
+--------+
| tidb-1 |
+--------+
+--------+
| db     |
+--------+
| tidb-0 |
+--------+
+--------------------------------+
| db                             |
+--------------------------------+
| tidb-0                         |
| insert this and rollback later |
+--------------------------------+
Stopping proxy-rule-admin-interface_proxysql_1 ... done
Stopping proxy-rule-admin-interface_tidb-0_1   ... done
Stopping proxy-rule-admin-interface_tidb-1_1   ... done
Removing proxy-rule-admin-interface_proxysql_1 ... done
Removing proxy-rule-admin-interface_tidb-0_1   ... done
Removing proxy-rule-admin-interface_tidb-1_1   ... done
Removing network proxy-rule-admin-interface_default
```

### Use the configuration file to configure load balancing

> To configure load balancing using the configuration file, you can run with the `test-load-balance` using the following command:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure load balancing using the configuration file, you can run `test-load-balance.sh` using the following command:
```

```shell
cd example/load-balance-config-file
./test-load-balance.sh
```

> The expected output is the same of [Use Admin Interface to configure load balancing](#use-the-configuration-file-to-configure-load-balancing) and the only change is using the configuration file to initialize the ProxySQL configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The expected output is the same as that of [Use Admin Interface to configure load balancing](#use-the-configuration-file-to-configure-load-balancing). The only change is using the configuration file to initialize the ProxySQL configuration.
```

> **Note:**
>

> > - The configuration of ProxySQL stores in SQLite. The configuration file is only used when the SQLite is not created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - The configuration of ProxySQL is stored in SQLite. The configuration file is only used when the SQLite is not created.
```

> > - The configuration of ProxySQL stores in SQLite. The configuration file is only used when the SQLite is not created.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
> - The configuration of ProxySQL is stored in SQLite. The configuration file is only used when the SQLite is not created.
```
